[Music]
okay get ready for a childhood flashback
remember your very first pet a cute
little goldfish you wanted a carnival
you were so excited to bring him home
but when you woke up the next morning Oh
mr. bubbles had crossed over into
goldfish heaven but you know this pet we
typically think of as short-lived and
temporary can actually live for way
longer I'm talking decades I know it
goes against all of your understanding
of having a goldfish
they've become synonymous with first pet
trial runs in households around the
world and that's because they're super
low maintenance they don't require belly
rubs or walks around the block twice a
day I'm looking at you pooches
but while goldfish are a great pet to
have and an even better cracker they
often bring sadness to their adoptive
families because of their all-too-common
extremely short lifespan seriously these
little guys rarely last more than five
years and those are the lucky ones
but goldfish aren't supposed to have
lives that play out faster than a good
pair of jeans while household pet
goldfish are expected to live anywhere
from five to ten years they can live as
long as twenty-five years in the wild
it's even longer than most cats walk the
earth so why can't you manage to keep
your little fish alive for more than a
few days the answer is simple poop
that's right
goldfish suffer from being stuck in fish
balls with their own excrement oh just
like people and other animals goldfish
poop contains toxins like ammonia and
this ammonia can burn their gills they
literally get poisoned by their own pool
when enclosed in a small space these
wild goldfish with their super long
lifespans don't meet the same fate
because they live in fresh open water
that fills lakes and ponds in this
environment bacteria work hard to break
down the chemicals found in fish poop
making it way less harmful on our little
guild friends so for your goldfish to
live a long time in a tank at home does
that mean you have to replenish it with
fresh water from a nearby stream every
day of course not but man what a workout
would that be huh the key to keeping
goldfish healthy and a tank is to slowly
introduce the same bacteria found in
bodies of fresh water and the first way
to do that is to eliminate chlorine what
glory
I ain't cleaning the tank like it's a
pool or something well actually it's in
the tap water from your sink or bathtub
in tap water chlorine helps
decontaminate water making it safe for
us to drink so as you can imagine it
wouldn't be an ideal chemical to mix
with bacteria you can remove chlorine
from the water in the fish tank with a
special conditioner found at most pet
stores or online without chlorine
present bacteria will slowly start to
form in your tank to get things moving a
bit you can even buy a solution
containing bacterial cultures and just
pour it into the tank that's all before
you introduce the fishies to their new
home the last step is to put some food
in there it sounds weird to put food in
the tank when the fish aren't even there
yet but there's a reason for this then
now existing bacteria eat away ammonia
that's also present in fish food okay so
when do the actual goldfish come into
the picture already good question
the short answer is eventually you see
before you put them in their new home
you must wait a little while okay a lot
a while if you put plenty of bacteria in
the tank it's probably best if you wait
a whopping two months before you bring
any fish into the equation two months
may seem like a long time but in the big
scheme of things it's a small price to
pay to create an environment that will
let your goldfish
and live at least a decade while making
sure the water is full of bacteria is a
great way to ensure your goldfish has a
long and healthy life you'll also want
to pay attention to the size of the tank
and in this case bigger really is better
sure those one gallon balls are super
convenient and can easily fit on your
desk or countertop but they're basically
a deathtrap for your fish heck even the
ten gallon tanks at the pet store can be
too cozy for these little guys according
to the goldfish tank comm yes there is
such a thing goldfish are often sold in
stores at a very young age so if you put
them in a ball they won't have any room
to grow not to mention with small balls
the fish have no choice but to swim in
their poop filled water as you can
imagine it's not all that pleasant for
them as for the specifics fish keeping
co uk says that you'll need a tank that
fits 30 gallons of water for fancy
goldfish you know the ones that come
wearing pearls just kidding you
basically want 3 feet or so for them to
swim around in and for each additional
fancy goldfish you'll need 10 more
gallons per common goldfish 40 gallons
of water will do with an additional 12
gallons for each additional fish and 4
feet of swimming space think of it this
way you don't like sitting on an
airplane for a 10 hour flight with very
little legroom right you got to give
them space I mean they're spending their
whole life in a tank after all well
don't forget that you'll have to refill
around 30 percent of the water every two
weeks
that's because fish actually emit
pheromones and hormones into the water
so if it's not refilled and replenished
these natural body chemicals can stunt
the fish's growth well at least that
explains why some goldfish in the wild
grow a lot bigger than the ones you have
at home like the size of a football kind
of huge hey go long
lastly don't forget to give your
goldfish some attention occasionally
they get lonely
pay attention to the smell of the water
or the way the fish's gills look if your
fish isn't excitedly swimming about it
may be cause for concern if you see
white spots or fuzzy looking patches
your fish could be suffering from
illnesses like swim bladder fin rot or
fungal infections that so unless you
make these accommodations perhaps
goldfish aren't the best animals to keep
as pets but there are other fish that
are better suited to fare the harsh
conditions of your humble abode
unlike goldfish betta fish love living
in balls and that's because they don't
go to the bathroom as much so their
water stays cleaner for longer betta
fish are also used to living in
slow-moving water so they don't require
an automated filtration system if you
keep a betta fish at home make sure it's
bowl holds no less than 5 gallons and
remember to clean out the water
regularly Regal white cloud minnows also
make for great pets since these little
beauties are used to living in ice-cold
water from the white cloud mountains in
China
you won't need a heater for the tank
they also stay small so they're
comfortable in a large fishbowl or
smaller aquarium this species of fish is
a schooling type which means they like
to be in groups so feel free to get a
handful at a time as long as the tanks
big enough but be warned these little
guys like to jump so a screen for the
top of the tank is a must-have
especially if you have a hungry Kitty
lurking right around the corner if you
only have room for a small tank in your
home you may want to consider adopting
some blind cave Tetris these are also
Coldwater fish that do well in groups
and depending on who you ask these fish
look either cool or creepy given the
fact that they don't have eyes and all
hence the name and they live true to
that name they like to hide in dark
places how can they tell so don't forget
to provide your blind cave tetra with
his own little hideaway cave to chill in
if you're on the fence about getting a
fish get down you might hurt yourself up
there you should also know that fish
make excellent pets when you treat them
right the same goes for any pet really
but fish are a good option for people
with dog or cat allergies and if you're
out and about all day at work you don't
have to worry about them ruining your
carpet with yet another accident also
don't forget that fish can be great for
your mental health
the folks at pet helpful comm say that
watching it caring for your fish can
ease anxiety and help relieve stress and
if you have fish of different colors
watching them can be a real mood lifter
since you can focus on their beauty
rather than the stuff that get you down
in life so have you ever had a goldfish
or any pet fish for that matter
leave me your fish story down in the
comments don't forget to give this video
a big thumbs up share it with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life
[Music]
you